## 2. The Law of Belief

> Whatever you truly believe, with feeling, becomes your reality.

- You always act in a manner consistent with your beliefs, especially your beliefs about yourself.
- Your beliefs act like a set of filters that screen out information that is inconsistent with them.
- You do not necessarily believe what you see but rather you see what you already believe.
- You reject information that contradicts what you have already decided to believe, whether or not your beliefs, and your prejudices, are based on fact or fantasy.
- The word “prejudice” means to pre-judge, to conclude in advance of any information, or even despite information, to the contrary.
- One of the best success strategies of all is for you to refrain from judging other people or situations until you have enough information to make an informed decision.
- Especially, you must refrain from prejudging yourself and your possibilities.
- Your most deeply entrenched beliefs about yourself and your abilities may not be true at all.
- The worst beliefs you can have are **`“Self-limiting beliefs.”`**
- These exist whenever you believe yourself to be limited in some way.
- For example, you may think yourself to be less talented or capable than others.
- You may think that others are superior to you in some way.
- You may have fallen into the common trap of selling yourself short and settling for far less than you are truly capable of.
- These self-limiting beliefs act like brakes on your potential.
- They hold you back.
- They generate the two greatest enemies of personal success- doubt and fear.
- They paralyze you and cause you to hesitate to take the intelligent risks that are necessary for you to fulfil your true potential.
- For you to progress, to move onward and upward in your life and your business, you must continually challenge your self-limiting beliefs.
- You must reject any thought or suggestion that you are limited in any way.
- You must accept as a basic principle that you are a ‘no-limit’ person and that what others have done, you can do as well.
- When I was a young man, coming from a difficult upbringing, I fell into the mental trap of concluding that because other people were doing better than I was, they must be better or smarter than I was.
- I accidentally concluded that they were worth more than I was.
- I must therefore be worth less. This false belief held me back for years.
- The fact is that no one is better than you are and no one is smarter than you are.
- If they are doing better, it is largely because they have developed their natural talents and abilities more than you have.
- They have learned the laws of cause and effect that apply to their lives and work before they have.
- And anything anyone else has done, within reason, you can probably do as well. You just need to learn how.

### How you can apply this law immediately:

```
Question 1.
- Free your mind from doubt and fear.
- Imagine you have no limitations.
- What one great thing would you dare to dream if you knew you could not fail?
- If you had all the time, money, talent, skills and contacts you could ever want,
- What would you decide to do or be or have in your life?
```

```
Question 2.

- Challenge the self-limiting beliefs that are holding you back.
- Most people are blind in this area.
- They need the honest feedback of someone who knows them and who will be honest with them.
- Go to someone you know and care about and ask him or her,
- if he or she sees any beliefs that you might have that are causing you to perform below your potential.
```





