## 4. The Law of Attraction

> You are a living magnet; you invariably attract into your life the people, situations and circumstances that are in harmony with your dominant thoughts.

- This is one of the great laws that explains much of success and failure in business and personal life.
- It has been written about as far back as the ancient Egyptian mystery schools, 3000 years before Christ.
- It is so powerful, pervasive and all-encompassing that it affects everything you do, say, or even think or feel.
- Everything you have in your life, you have attracted to yourself because of the way you think, because of the person you are.
- You can change your life because you can change the way you think.
- You can change the person you are.
- You have heard it said, “Birds of a feather flock together.” “Like attracts like.” “Whatever you want, wants you.” These are ways of expressing the Law of Attraction.
- Your thoughts are extremely powerful.
- They are like a form of mental energy that travels at the speed of light.
- They are so fine that they can go through any barrier.
- This is why, for example, you can think about a person, sometimes at a great distance, and in the next moment, the phone will ring and that person will be on the line.
- Your thoughts have connected with that person the moment you thought them.
- Companies develop products, processes, services and ways of doing business that attract an entire constellation of customers, employees, suppliers, financiers and circumstances that are in harmony with the dominant thinking of the organization.
- It is as though every human ingredient inside and outside of the organization is a musical instrument of some kind.
- Together, they make up a great symphony.
- They are all playing together and creating a form of music that constitutes the activities of your business and your life.
- Whenever things are not going well in any organization, the fastest way to bring about change is to bring in a new person who changes the way people think and feel about themselves and what they are doing.
- New values, new visions, new strategies and new policies toward customers and each other bring about rapid and often dramatic change.

## How you can apply this law immediately:

```
Question 1.

- Engage in a rigorous process of self-analysis, and self-examination.
- Look closely at the world around you and see how it harmonizes with your thinking.
- Take full credit for all the good things in your life.
- They are there because you have attracted them to yourself.
- Then, look around you at the things you don’t like and take full responsibility for them, as well.
- They are there because of you, because of some flaw in your thinking. What is that flaw, and what will you do about it?
```

```
Question 2.

- Look into yourself and ask, “What is it in me that is causing this situation?
- Assume as a basic principle that you are the ongoing architect of your own life, your destiny.
- You continually create what happens to you by the way you think.
- What changes do you need to make in your thinking if you want to change or improve some aspect of your life?
```

