## 5. The Law of Correspondence

> Your outer world is a reflection of your inner world; it corresponds with your dominant patterns of thinking.

- This is an extraordinary principle. It explains most happiness and unhappiness, most success and failure, and most greatness and meanness in life.
- After years of study in this area, I still stand in awe before this powerful law, like standing and looking out over the vastness of the Grand Canyon.
- Just think! Your outer world reflects your inner world in every way.
- Nothing can happen to or for you in the long term until and unless it corresponds to something inside of you.
- If you want to change or improve anything in your life, you must begin by changing the inner aspects of your mind.
- Sometimes this is called the “mental equivalent.”
- Your greatest responsibility in life is to create within yourself the mental equivalent of what you want to experience on the outside.
- The fact is that you cannot achieve it on the outside until you have first created it on the inside.
- It is as though your life is a 360-degree mirror. Wherever you look, there you are.
- Your relationships, for example, always reflect to you the kind of person you are on the inside.
- Your attitude, your health and your material conditions are a reflection of the way you think most of the time.
- This is hard for most people to accept. Most people think that the problems in their lives are caused by other people and external circumstances.
- They are shocked and angered to be told that they are the primary architects of everything that happens to them.
- They want others to change.
- They want the world to change. But they do not want to change themselves.
- The Law of Correspondence is a foundation principle of virtually all religions and schools of thought.
- It is great news. It is the key to personal freedom and happiness.
- It is the high road to great success and fulfilment.
- There is only one thing in the world that you can control, and that is the way you think.
- However, when you take complete control over your thinking, you take control over all the other aspects of your life.
- By thinking and talking only about what you want, and by refusing to think or talk about what you don’t want, you become the architect of your destiny.

## How you can apply this law immediately:

```
Question 1.

- Look around you for examples where your outer world of experience is a reflection of your inner world of thought, emotions and belief.
- How does your current situation in your business or career reflect your innermost attitudes and convictions toward your company?
- How does your current situation in your business or career reflect your innermost attitudes and convictions toward your coworkers?
- How does your current situation in your business or career reflect your innermost attitudes and convictions toward your products and services?
- How does your current situation in your business or career reflect your innermost attitudes and convictions toward your customers and your goals?
- Be honest.
```

```
Question 2.

- Begin today to build the consciousness, the mental equivalent, on the inside, of the life you want to enjoy on the outside.
- Visualize and imagine that your business and career were perfect in every respect.
- What changes do you need to make in your thinking to create your inner world in such a way that it is consistent with what you want to experience on the outside?
```

- All the business laws you will learn in this book are logical extensions of the Law of Cause and Effect, combined with the Laws of Belief, Expectations, Attraction and Correspondence.
- They contain a single message: If you change the quality of your thinking, you change the quality of your life.
- And since there is no limit to how much better you can think, there is no real limit to how much better your life can be.
- It’s totally up to you.
